## Walkthrough

For this walkthrough, I suggest running on a 64 bit EC2 instance running Ubuntu 14.04.  You can use any machine that
runs Juju and go, but the steps here apply to Ubuntu 14.04 amd64.

We'll actually run everything locally though, using LXC, at first!

Begin by launching screen:
```
screen -DR -S juju
```

Install juju on the machine:

```
sudo apt-get install --yes juju juju-local

juju generate-config
juju switch local

juju bootstrap

juju status
```

Highly recommended (but optional): use an apt-cache to avoid downloading packages repeatedly:

```
sudo apt-get install --yes squid-deb-proxy

# Enable caching of all (popular) domains!
cat << EOF | sudo tee /etc/squid-deb-proxy/mirror-dstdomain.acl
.com
.net
.org
EOF

sudo service squid-deb-proxy restart

juju set-env apt-http-proxy=http://10.0.3.1:8000
```


Install JXaaS:

```
sudo apt-get install --yes golang
# go get requires some version control clients:
sudo apt-get install --yes git bzr mercurial

git clone https://github.com/jxaas/jxaas.git ~/jxaas

cd ~/jxaas
./build.sh
```

Install the JXaaS CLI client (written in Python):

```
sudo apt-get install --yes python-pip
#pip install requests
#pip install git+https://github.com/jxaas/charm-toolkit.git
sudo apt-get install --yes git
sudo pip install git+https://github.com/jxaas/python-client.git
sudo pip install git+https://github.com/jxaas/cli.git
```

Start the JXaaS server:

```
cd ~/jxaas/.build
bin/jxaasd &
```

The first time this is run JXaaS will automatically install some shared Juju services
 (like ElasticSearch); this takes a few minutes to finish.  When it is done it prints "INFO Ready!"

In a new window, or a new screen session:

`jxaas list-instances mysql`  lists all your MySQL instances; there aren't any yet.

`jxaas create-instance mysql m1` will create a new MySQL instance.

It will now show as pending in `jxaas list-instances mysql`


If you now run `juju status` you can see that it is actually creating a number of Juju
services to support the MySQL service:

* A MySQL parent service
* A subordinate service which collects metrics, which is related to a shared ElasticSearch instance
* A subordinate service called 'sc' (short for stubclient), which makes the charm think it has a Juju client


After 30 seconds or so, the instance should move to the 'started' state.  If you run `jxaas wait mysql m1`,
that will wait until the instance is ready before exiting.  This is very useful from scripts!

`jxaas list-properties mysql m1 mysql` will then show you the basic MySQL connection properties.

JXaaS has short-cuts for connecting to instances using the appropriate client.  For MySQL, that means
the MySQL client:

```
# Make sure the mysql client is installed
sudo apt-get install --yes mysql-client

# Connect
jxaas connect-instance mysql m1
```

`jxaas destroy-instance mysql m1` will terminate the MySQL instance

It will now be gone from `jxaas list-instances mysql`

JXaaS will automatically shut down the unused LXC instances as well within a few minutes.

# Summary

We installed Juju, JXaaS and the JXaaS CLI.  We created a MySQL instance using the JXaaS MySQL-aaS.

Next: [using JXaaS from Juju](2.md)




