## 2 - Proxy Charms - using JXaaS from Juju


JXaaS makes it easy to consume JXaaS services from Juju.

This uses a "proxy charm", which is a charm that looks like MySQL (for example) to Juju,
but is in fact wrapping a JXaaS MySQL service.

For this example, we'll run everything within one Juju instance.

We need to configure the proxy charm so it knows how to connect to the JXaaS API.

```
export JXAAS_URL=http://10.0.3.1:8080/xaas
cat > /tmp/config <<EOF
mp2:
  jxaas-url: ${JXAAS_URL}
  jxaas-authmode: direct
  jxaas-tenant: admin
  jxaas-user: admin
  jxaas-secret: secret
EOF
```

Let's install mediawiki, which uses a MySQL database.  This works exactly as it normally does with Juju,
except instead of a mysql charm, we'll use the mysql-proxy charm (with the JXaaS configuration):

```
juju deploy --config=/tmp/config cs:~justin-fathomdb/trusty/mysql-proxy mp2

juju deploy cs:~justin-fathomdb/trusty/mediawiki wiki2

juju status wiki2
juju status mp2

juju add-relation wiki2:db mp2:db
```

If you want to watch the progress as everything is installed you can run: `sudo tail -f  /var/log/juju-*-local/all-machines.log`

The mysql-proxy charm creates a MySQL instance using JXaaS.  You can see the created MySQL instance: `jxaas list-instances mysql`

Using the mysql-proxy charm means that you can consume JXaaS easily within Juju.  There is a proxy charm
for each JXaaS service.  Each one automatically connects to JXaaS, creates the appropriate service, and
then provides the configuration details to Juju.

So here mediawiki is running in Juju, but consumes MySQL delivered from JXaaS.

When this is all ready, you should be able to connect to mediawiki (exactly like you would normally):

```
juju expose wiki2

WIKI_ADDRESS=`juju status wiki2 | grep public-address | cut -f 2 -d ':' | tr -d ' '`
echo "WIKI_ADDRESS=${WIKI_ADDRESS}"
x-www-browser http://${WIKI_ADDRESS}/mediawiki/
```

You can also connect to the MySQL JXaaS service: `jxaas connect mysql mp2`  Try doing a `SHOW TABLES` command to see
all the mediawiki tables.

# Summary


We used the mysql-proxy charm to use a JXaaS MySQL instance with Juju, exactly as we would do with a local mysql.

Next: [running on EC2](3.md)

