## 3 - Running on EC2

Suppose you wanted to get into the MySQL-aaS business, or maybe offer Cassandra-aaS.  You can't do that
with everything running on one machine using LXC!

So let's run a real XaaS: running on EC2, running an EC2 instance fo each Juju machine.

Note that means that we'll be running a handful of instances, so this will cost a few hours of EC2 time!

For EC2, the big gotcha is that Juju instances must be able to reach JXaaS.  So you have to run
JXaaS on EC2 as well.

Set up Juju with EC2 as normal.  I recommend doing this on an EC2 instance, because it makes the
[next step](4.md) much more interesting (but you don't have to!)

On your EC2 instance, go through the normal routine for EC2 installation:

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install --yes juju juju-local

juju generate-config
```

Add your EC2 access-key and secret-key to juju, so it can launch instances:

```
vi ~/.juju/environments.yaml
```

Now set up jxaas inside of juju; juju will launch another EC2 instance:

```
# Deploy juju (in 64 bit mode; JXaaS is only shipped in 64 bit)
juju bootstrap --constraints "arch=amd64 mem=3G"

# That deploys to an m3.medium; if you'rd rather deploy to an m1.small do this instead:
# juju bootstrap --constraints "arch=amd64"

juju status
```

If you want to deploy everything onto m3.mediums (recommended):

```
juju set-constraints mem=3G
```

Then add JXaaS to machine #0 (it doesn't have to be the same machine, but this means we
don't consume an extra machine).  This uses the JXaaS charm, which uses a pre-compiled version of
JXaaS (from S3), so you don't need to build it.  The deployed juju services report their status
to the JXaaS server, which is why JXaaS must be deployed within juju:

```
juju deploy --to 0 cs:~justin-fathomdb/trusty/jxaas jxaas
```



(If you're running on LXC, it won't allow you to deploy to the same machine, so you can't use `-to 0`)

Now we need to set the Juju credentials.  This should get your admin secret:

```
grep admin-secret ~/.juju/environments/amazon.jenv | cut -f 2 -d ':' | tr -d ' '
```

We need to tell JXaaS that secret, so it can drive Juju:

```
API_SECRET=`grep admin-secret ~/.juju/environments/amazon.jenv | cut -f 2 -d ':' | tr -d ' '`
echo "Setting API_SECRET: ${API_SECRET}"
juju set jxaas "api-password=${API_SECRET}"
```

Now make sure that JXaaS is exposed (NOTE: this isn't really safe yet, because
we're not yet using real authentication):

```
juju expose jxaas
```

It may take a few minutes for JXaaS to initialize all the shared components it needs: it has to launch EC2 instances
for each.  You can watch the status in `juju status`.

If the jxaas CLI isn't yet installed, you can do that now:

```
sudo apt-get install --yes python-pip git
sudo pip install git+https://github.com/jxaas/python-client.git
sudo pip install git+https://github.com/jxaas/cli.git
```


Now let's try it out:

```
PUBLIC_ADDRESS=`juju status jxaas | grep public-address | cut -f 2 -d ':' | tr -d ' '`
echo "PUBLIC_ADDRESS is ${PUBLIC_ADDRESS}"
export JXAAS_URL=http://${PUBLIC_ADDRESS}:8080/xaas
echo "export JXAAS_URL=http://${PUBLIC_ADDRESS}:8080/xaas"

jxaas list-instances mysql

jxaas create-instance mysql m3

jxaas list-instances mysql
```

You should see the mysql instance.  JXaaS asks Juju to run the MySQL charm on a new EC2 instance.
That will take a minute or two, but the JXaaS instance should move from pending into the started state in `jxaas list-instances mysql`
(you can also use `juju status`/`juju debug-log` to see what's happening behind the scenes).

Then you should try connecting to it:

```
sudo apt-get install --yes mysql-client
jxaas connect-instance mysql m3
```


If you're going to stop here, don't forget to shut down your EC2 instances.  But if you
go on to step 4 first, there's a nice feature that can use the setup you're got now...

# Summary

We ran JXaaS in a real-world configuration, running across multiple EC2 machines.  We had to do a little bit more
configuration, but it was still really easy!

Next we'll see how to [use juju with JXaaS on EC2](4.md)