## 4 - Remote Proxy Charms

This follows on from step #3, where we set up JXaaS on EC2.  Here, we'll show that you can still use JXaaS with Juju,
even with a Juju running on your local machine and JXaaS running on EC2.

You will need the JXAAS_URL from step #3, from your first EC2 machine:

```
echo "JXAAS_URL=${JXAAS_URL}"
```

Now, we'll set up a local Juju instance, and consume MySQL-aaS from JXaaS, using the proxy charm.

(This is largely a repetition of what we did in step #2, but using 2 Juju environments, to show
the real power!)

Set up a local Juju on your local machine:

```
juju generate-config
juju switch local

juju bootstrap

juju status
```

Now, let's set up mediawiki talking to a JXaaS MySQL instance, but where JXaaS and the MySQL instance are running on EC2:

```
JXAAS_URL=<copy from ec2 machine>
echo "Using JXAAS_URL=${JXAAS_URL}"
cat > /tmp/config <<EOF
mp4:
  jxaas-url: ${JXAAS_URL}
  jxaas-authmode: direct
  jxaas-tenant: admin
  jxaas-user: admin
  jxaas-secret: secret
EOF



juju deploy --config=/tmp/config cs:~justin-fathomdb/trusty/mysql-proxy mp4

juju deploy cs:~justin-fathomdb/trusty/mediawiki wiki4

juju status wiki4
juju status mp4

juju add-relation wiki4:db mp4:db
```

If you want to watch progress:

```
sudo tail -f  /var/log/juju-*-local/all-machines.log 
```

Because it's running under the same user account, you can also see the mp4 instance on your EC2 machine:

```
jxaas list-instances mysql
```


When everything has finished try connecting to mediawiki:

```
WIKI_ADDRESS=`juju status wiki4 | grep public-address | cut -f 2 -d ':' | tr -d ' '`
echo "WIKI_ADDRESS=${WIKI_ADDRESS}"
x-www-browser http://${WIKI_ADDRESS}/mediawiki/
```

Note that it's much slower than the local scenario, because mediawiki is not using connection pooling,
so has to connect to MySQL on every page request.


Don't forget to close down your EC2 instances as otherwise you'll wipe out all that money
you saved on the Harry Potter books.

On the EC2 server, run:

```
juju destroy-environment amazon
```

That should shut down all the EC2 instances Juju started.  So now you just need to shut down the
EC2 instance hosting Juju, and you should be OK!  It's probably a good idea to go into the EC2 control panel
and double-check that all the Juju instances are terminates.

# Summary

It's as easy to use JXaaS with Juju when JXaaS is running in a production environment on EC2, as it is
when JXaaS is running locally.

Next lets [see other services that ship with JXaaS](5.md)