## 7 - Changing configuration

JXaaS lets users change the configurations of their instances, within boundaries
established by the manifest.

This assumes you're still running the local LXC JXaaS, as in step 5 & 6

Let's create a new mysql instance:

```
jxaas create-instance mysql tutorial7

jxaas wait mysql tutorial7

jxaas list-instances mysql
jxaas list-properties mysql tutorial7 mysql
jxaas connect mysql tutorial7
```

You can see that the JXaaS instances have configuration, just like Juju charms:

```
jxaas get-options mysql tutorial7
```

A note on terminology: Just like Juju - we distinguish _options_ from _properties_.
The user sets _options_ which change the configuration of MySQL (such as whether to require SSL).
The system exposes the _properties_ of the service, such as the password.

In fact, usually most of these option values map directly to a Juju charm setting.  But sometime
that isn't appropriate for an XaaS environment, so not all of them map directly.  The manifest controls this.

We're going to change the slow-query-time parameter on the MySQL charm.  If you want, you can check
that it is still set to the default (-1) in Juju:

```
juju get uadmin-mysql-tutorial7-mysql | grep -A5 slow-query-time
```

You can also connect to MySQL and verify that the setting is off:

```
jxaas connect mysql tutorial7

show variables like 'long_query_time';
```

Now, through JXaaS, set the configuration value:

```
jxaas set-option mysql tutorial7 slow-query-time 0.1
```

You can verify that JXaas passed this through to Juju:

```
juju get uadmin-mysql-tutorial7-mysql | grep -A5 slow-query-time
```

And that it is now set in MySQL:

```
jxaas connect mysql tutorial7

show variables like 'long_query_time';
```


If you're using a proxy charm, you can set the property through Juju on the proxy charm,
the proxy charm passes it to JXaaS, which sets the property on the Juju charm providing
the service.

# Summary

JXaaS lets the user configure their service with various options.  It also lets the service provider
lock down some options, for security or pricing reasons.

Next, let's look at [repair and auto-repair](8.md)

